Matt let's take a turn to your movie do
you want to walk people through that a
bit I saw it by the way and it looks to
me like you'll have the same kind of
radical success with it that you did
with what is a woman you've got this
every man quality about you you know
you're and you I think it's true by the
way I mean there is some of that about
you but you also do a good job of being
a naive investigator into the crazy
world of ideological possession do you
want to walk us through the movie a
little bit
sure um yeah you know we
we decided we of course we had what is
woman and uh and it was very successful
for us and and we're thinking about you
know this is going back two years ago
thinking about um what what what topic
do we want to tackle next and how to
tackle it and for me it was very clear I
wanted to get into we talked about you
know we did the movie we we investigated
gender broadly
speaking um race is the other one
culturally and so I knew I wanted to
investigate that um the question was
like how do you approach it and with
what is woman I mean the the strategy is
right there in the title it's just this
this one basic question that the whole
thing hinges on um now with with race
it's not not quite like that there isn't
one there's a lot of questions there's
not one basic one um it's just a
different it's a different beast in a
lot of
ways and so uh and we also didn't want
to repeat just uh the you know we didn't
want to do what is a woman but with race
so at this time we thought it'd be
interesting to take a different approach
and and that is to
start uh as the cluess naive
investigator asking
questions the only difference here is
that whereas with what as a woman I was
kind of a blank slate the whole way
through just asking questions not not
having any real like position on it
myself in the film until the very very
end um in this one we thought well okay
well what if what if uh I start by
asking questions and rather than
remaining a blank slate and remaining
skeptical I I'll just believe whatever
I'm told uh so they'll give me an answer
and I'll accept that and then I'll let
that answer lead me to the next place
um and that's that's the strategy we
took with with this and it kind of takes
us and we really did approach it in in
filming this way so that we had a really
broad outline of what what where we
wanted to go with the film and where we
wanted to end up but you can't really
script it out because we go to talk to
someone we don't know exactly what
they're going to say or how it's going
to go and so this is why filming it was
over a year was a long process because
we kind of let we let the story guide
us and uh went down the rabbit hole that
way and in the process um because I'm
kind of believing what these anti-racist
Dei people are telling me and and sort
of adopting their views and trying to
trying to put them into practice so that
was the that was the goals
to not just ask them about it but to
take what they say put it into practice
on screen so that people can see it and
um so it's a much more direct I think
way of kind of sterzing these ideas
maybe even then we did in what as a
woman you got Dei certified okay so a
couple of comments so you adopt a
Persona you've got a man bun I've got a
hint for you if you ever do this again
is you have to learn to upt talk at the
end of your sentences you have to make
every sentence into something that
sounds like a question because your
voice gives you away because you've got
this flat authoritative voice like you
just make declarative statements there's
no question in them and one of the
things you'll notice about the the Dei
types this is very telling is that they
always end every sentence with an upt
talk it's it's a form of validation
seeking and you're be lied by your
authoritative voice as a Dei man bun
specialist and so you might want to give
that some consideration when you're
trying to pass for one of the people who
you're investigating anyways you went
got Dei certification so I'm kind of
wondering if that might be handy for you
to re-educate me and so and also since I
seem to be uh destined now to being
re-educated by Dei Specialists um you
took that training what the hell was
that
like uh well it was very easy it turns
out um lit literally anyone can get Dei
certified is what we discovered uh
because there's no it's it's not like
there's some official process uh it's
not like you know there's it's not like
becoming a certified to be a plumber in
electrition you know it's not anything
like that it's not a real profession
it's not a real thing so anyone anyone
can uh get certified anyone can declare
themselves an expert is what we
discovered and how long you how long did
it take
you the actual process of getting
certified yeah yeah I don't know 30
minutes maybe hey so you mean I could go
get Dei certified and then I could
present that to the Ontario College of
psychologists as evidence for my
successful
re-education you absolutely could and
should I mean I could give you I don't
have the website in front of me but
there's a certain website we went to get
our to get our certification and I'd
happy to pass it along to you I think
you absolutely should do that oh it I
know
if yeah it it it opens up a lot of doors
we we found and um you know even aside
from the the certification It's really
because you're right that that's that's
kind of one of like the meta jokes in
the movie that yeah I'm like wearing a
costume but it's not that convincing
it's it's really just a man bun I don't
even shave my beard we talked about we
talked about yeah in in the in the
process of of making the film we we we
thought that it'd be very difficult to
get in the room with these people if all
I'm wearing is a wig because I am I do
have a pretty distinct look and sound
and so the idea was floated well maybe I
shave the beard that would be a pretty
drastic change of my look that that was
a no-go for me I'm not going to do that
there's some things I'm just not willing
to do um but what we found is that it
actually didn't it didn't matter because
even the wig probably didn't matter that
much all all they want to know is that
you are
repeat there's certain just buzzword and
phrases that if you repeat them back to
these people uh they will accept you as
part of the tribe and they're not going
to be very skeptical about it we it was
the same thing we were making what is a
woman we got in the room with a lot of
these types in the gender space and
there was no disguise at all in that
case um and the way we did it was just
all you have to they're just looking for
the the key words and um if you if they
think that you are part of the tribe and
they drop all the defenses and they'll
sit in the room with you and I think
part in both those those cases part of
the reason why it was so
easy uh may not be so easy for anyone
who tries to do it again now after we
made both these movies but it was easy
at the time because all of these people
live in a in a bubble um they live in a
world where they're they're never
challenged on their beliefs they're
never even around anyone who would
disagree with them so so I think for
them uh the idea that they might be
interviewed by someone who fundamentally
disagrees with them was really just like
Unthinkable they never even considered
the possibility because they're never
even around those kinds of people um and
we we really kind of punctured that
bubble I guess in making the so the most
surprising thing to me and I don't want
to be speaking out of turn here was the
fact that you got to talk to Robin
D'Angelo and Robin D'Angelo famously is
the author of um white fragility which
is really one of the most despicable
books I would say that's ever been
written and I think she also fits into
that category as a thinker and likely as
a human being and um is it reasonable
for you to talk a little bit about that
I don't know how you managed that
and I don't want to blow the punch line
but yeah I think there's most of the
content of that of that
exchange with her I think they don't
want me to talk about at this point and
give away the spoilers okay okay that
that that conversation does go to a
place that um maybe will be unexpected
for a lot of people but um the fact that
she's in the movie is no secret we have
her in the trailer and right uh and that
that kind of goes what I what I just
said that I think for her she she's
probably the prime example of this
because you would think if you didn't
know any better you would think it'd be
difficult to get Robin D'Angelo into a
room uh and that she'd be looking out
for anyone who maybe who who maybe isn't
her in her tribe she'd be looking out
for this kind for example because you
know you might you might suggest that
possibly Robin D'Angelo if she was even
vaguely informed about absolutely
anything that she purports to be doing
would know who the hell you
are right you would think but yeah you
apparently not because because I I think
she's probably the prime example of this
of someone who I in her day-to-day life
she probably almost never even interacts
with or speaks to anyone who is not um
as far to the left as she is on all
these issues or at least almost as far
uh that's that's just the world that
she's in and so when I'm sitting across
the room with her having a conversation
I mean it's probably the first time in
years if not ever that she has in this
case unwittingly but has found herself
sitting in a room with someone who
fundamentally disagrees with her um
about almost
everything and uh and I don't know these
these academic leftist types that's the
kind of bubble they in for a lot of us
we we you know for me obviously because
I am conservative and uh you know my
family's conservative and I work here at
the daily wire most of the people that
I'm around are conservative but you know
I interact with people that are far-left
all the time it's um it would be a lot
more difficult for someone on the left
to do to me what we did to Robin
D'Angelo because I'm aware that these
people are out there I know who they are
I'm looking out for that kind of thing
it'd be a hard it'd be hard for them to
pull off um because I'm just not in the
same kind of bubble I guess that she is
so two two more questions about the
movie um what did you learn as a
consequence of doing it and why should
people go see it as far as you're
concerned I think there are there are
several things maybe maybe the main
thing that I learned and I don't know if
it's learned so much as Illustrated for
me
um but the extent to
which a lot of people that fall for this
you know there's the there are the
people that push it the robin D'Angelo
types uh the women who run the race to
dinner who we have in the film oh yes
that's Sarah ra yeah Sarah ra yeah the
DI she's the worst person on Twitter
which is really or arguably the way she
every single thing that that woman does
is self-serving and malevolent to the
bloody coure she is a real
Miracle tot she runs those dinners where
the white women pay to be humiliated by
two unbelievably narcissistic
Psychopaths so that they can feel good
about themselves without actually having
to do any moral e having to put in any
of the moral effort exactly exactly and
that's and that's the thing so so those
types of people the people that are
running the show you know that's one
thing and I don't know how much they
even believe a lot of what they're
saying I don't think they believe all of
it
certainly um and there's not a lot to be
learned about them I think that they're
kind of yeah they're grifters they're
con artists uh they're making a lot of
money on this stuff that's that's a big
part of the motivation it's not very
complicated
um but what's more interesting to me are
the it's like the women who would sit
around that table who are paying money
to be there or the people that would
that would willingly attend one of these
seminars that we have in the film people
that would willingly read Robin
D'Angelo's book I've always I'm more
interested in them like what what's
going on with them and what I found
making the film is that uh you really
can't
overstate the guilt that these people
are walking around with what white guilt
white Guild is a very real phenomenon
and I knew that making the movie but
having it Illustrated so profoundly was
still pretty enlightening to me uh that
a lot of these people are just they're
they're walking around with a lot of
guilt and uh for someone for like a a a
sane rational white person like myself
and you it's it can be kind it's it's
hard to understand because I I've never
spent any time feeling guilty about
slavery or Jim Crow I had nothing to do
with it I it's it's it's just it's I've
never spent any time feeling guilty
about it at all and so it's hard for us
to understand people who are over not
not only have they felt guilt about it
but they're overcome with guilt by this
kind of
thing and um yeah I guess how much of
that is that how much of that though too
is that they want to Signal how overcome
by guilt they are so that they look like
hyperoral agents you know it's like I
see the same thing with mothers in
particular who brandish their trans
children like they're a flag of Pride
it's like oh look at how upset and
Confused my child is and yet I'm still
wonderful enough to love them no matter
what you know it's a really malevolent
game and that parading your self
flatulation as a indication of the
profundity of your guilt that's a pretty
bloody ugly game too now you know I
understand that there's a fair bit of
genuine moral confusion mixed in there
but the self-serving in public you
notice that those women go to those
dinners in groups it's not Sarah Roo and
her pathological partner with one woman
they have to do that in groups so they
they can signal to each other the depths
of their moral
virtue yeah I think that that's that's
certainly right there's a certain amount
of virtue signaling that goes into it
for sure um but if you're in you know
the race to dinner just using that again
as an example and that's you know that's
seven or eight minutes in the movie but
in real life of course you're making a
movie uh the especially movie like this
they take a lot longer to film and that
was really two hours I mean that that
dinner went on for two hours and you can
see these women sitting around at this
table at various points crying uh
seemingly very much overcome with
emotion talking about their racism that
they feel you know and given
opportunities to talk about examples of
when they're when they committed racist
acts and then they share their examples
and it's like none of the examples they
give are actual racism
and yeah again some of that is them just
showing off but I do think that at the
core of it there is real guilt here and
my own and we could spent another two
hours psychoanalyzing this but I think
my own theory about how they can feel
this guilt is that uh it's a it's a
replacement for religion I mean these
are almost all of them are irreligious
people even if they would call
themselves Christians they're not really
and um and you know traditionally
religion has given us an answer for
guilt because we all do now I don't feel
any I don't feel any racial I don't feel
any white guilt but I do feel guilt I I
do experience guilt uh for things that I
do that are wrong if I commit sins I
feel guilty about them but then I turn
to my faith and that gives me an answer
for number one why I feel that guilt
what that guilt is from and then what to
do with it what do I do about it about
that guilt um and I can turn to my faith
and get an answer to all of that but if
you take religion out of it well now
you've still got people that are sinning
that are doing evil acts and so they're
still going to feel the guilt because of
it but they don't have a way of
understanding that guilt they don't have
any way of interpreting it and so they
look around for someone to tell them
what to do with the guilt and then these
race Hustlers are there and they'll tell
you oh I'll tell you why you feel guilty
it's because of this
[Music]
am